Exhale
A Command line to convert Excel files (2007 >) into various other formats.
No install of Excel is required, using Apache POI libraries. (http://poi.apache.org/)

Simple tool that pipes the Microsoft Office Excel 2007 files into any supported format.
Supported formats at the moment are:
csv	Comma delimited
xml XML mark up



Exhale myfile.xslx -to csv > myfile.csv
Exhale myfile.xslx -to xml > myfile.xml

A file name should be the first, and only unnamed argument.
This is the source, Excel (xslx) file you wish to convert.

Output is always to the standard output pipe.

Exhale can also accept a stream from the standard input stream, so data can be piped into and out of it.
e.g.
exhale -to xml -indent < myfile.xslx > myfile.xml 


Argument:
Named arguments can be used to control the export.
Each named argument is preeded with a dash '-', followed by its name.
If the argument accepts a value, the value follows a space after the name.

-to   The format to export to.  Can be any supported format.
	  Currently just two supported:
	  csv
	  xml
	  If not stated, then defaults to csv.
	  

-sheet <sheet name or index> Specifies which sheet(s) to export.
							 By default, all sheets are exported.
							 By naming one or more sheets, only those sheets are exported and others ignored.
							 Sheets can be named by their name (case insensitive) or their (zero based) index.
							 Multiple sheets can be specified by separating names with a comma.
							 Names can be a mix of sheet names and indexes.
							 e.g. Sheet1,2,Sheet4 will export every other sheet, Sheet 1, Sheet 3 and Sheet 4
							 as the '2' acts as a zero based index, indicating sheet 3.

-headerrows n	Sets the number of rows in each sheet to define as head rows, where n is the number of rows,
				from the top most row, to include as headers.
				By default this is one, indicating the first row only is a header row.
				

Formats have their own arguments also, which ar only valid, when that format is in use.

Format CSV

delimit
line

-noheaders	Indicates the export should ignore the header rows and export just data rows.
			When present, noheaders will skip the head rows, (As defined by the headerrows argument)
			When not specified, all rows are exported.
			
-delimit	Specifies the field delimiter.
			By default the limiter is a comma (Hence the name CSV, duh).
			This can be specified as any other string.

-line		Specifies the line delimiter.
			By default a return character (\n) is used to delimit each row.
			Specifying the line argument allows any other string to be used.
			


Format XML
-blanks		Empty cells are exported as cell leaf nodes.
			Usually, only cells containing data are written to the export and blank cells omitted.
			By specifying the blanks, the empty cells are included as simple leaf tags.

-indent		Indents the XML and places each element on its own line.
			By default xml is exported as a single line of text.						